Leading business accelerator programme, Property Point, have announced that applications are open for women-led businesses within the property sector to be part of the award-winning enterprise and supplier development programme. Fifteen qualifying businesses will be put through a two-year programme giving entrepreneurs the tools needed to develop business skills and access new opportunities within the property sector. Preference is given to businesses who incorporate green building technology and sustainability practices. The Property Point programme delivers bespoke business support interventions, based on a rigorous baseline assessment with the businesses. In addition to providing fundamental business skills such as marketing, financial management and quality management, the programme uniquely focuses on minimising the risks that businesses face through skills development and reputation building. The focus is on excellent delivery of work and creating an enabling environment where strategic relationships can be formed in order to access markets. The programme has a 12-year track record and is known for its ability to adapt to changing business demands, thus the challenges presented by Covid-19 is yet another opportunity to refine and prepare women-led businesses for success. Property Point has facilitated market opportunities worth R1.5bn for the 227 SMEs that have taken part in its enterprise and supplier development programme to date. The programme has helped to create 2615 full-time jobs and SMEs on the programme report average revenue growth of 30.2%. The programme won the Impact Award at the 2019 Absa Business Day Supplier Development Awards that recognise, and celebrate businesses committed to building thriving, inclusive and transformed supply chains. Property Point was also named 2018 Accelerator of the Year at the SA Business Incubation Awards. To be considered for the programme businesses must meet the following criteria: Businesses must offer services that are needed in the property industry To apply, complete the application form at www.propertypoint.org.za and remember to attach all the required documents. Deadline for applications is 26th June 2020 and all successful businesses will be contacted during the 3rd week of July 2020. “Our team eagerly look forward every year to applications from entrepreneurs who have proven they have the grit and determination to make it. The competition for places is intense and we look forward to helping the most promising entrants on to the next phase of their business journey,” said Shawn Theunissen, founder and head of Property Point. “We’re excited to help women business owners discover how they, through their enterprises, can transform the country and impact the lives of many. Our mission is to empower and nurture entrepreneurial talent through our programme that has provided a springboard for hundreds of entrepreneurs over the past 12 years.” More information about the Programme, contact Property Point on 010 593 4604 or email Nicole@PropertyPoint.org.za and be sure to follow us on Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube and Twitter.   This year, the focus at the annual DigiMarCon Africa will be on how to build… Known for its multicultural communities and thriving art scene, the German capital is positioning itself… History books give the impression that men have invented most of the things that have… 