Multi-talented media maven Jeannie D recently teamed up with iXperience, a leading global education provider, to help equip young South Africans with the skills for the digital age. This included a virtual internship opportunity with some of the country’s leading companies – an innovative way to gain valuable mentorship and connections amid COVID-19. iXperience’s Remote program (called iX Remote) is a dynamic 6-week program, during which you take a career-oriented course that focuses on future-fit skills like digital marketing, web development, or visual design. The program includes a sought-after virtual internship, where a student becomes immersed in one of the country’s best-known local businesses to build connections that could last a lifetime. No matter your major or intended career path, you’ll gain industry-relevant skills and join a global network of exceptional students and professionals. Jeannie D studied digital marketing with iXperience this year. Having never completed her art school qualification – she left to pursue her career – the businesswoman wanted to study practical skills that she could apply directly to her life. She says that COVID-19 has accelerated change in the world of work, “It’s radically transforming how we work, so arming yourself with digital skills is essential. Here are Jeannie D’s 5 Lessons for Finding Opportunities During a Global Pandemic: Aaron Fuchs, Founder and CEO of iXperience says that iX Remote – a digital version of the study abroad company – was born from the pandemic and is a world-class online offering, “iXperience has been providing students with a study abroad and internship program for almost ten years. Since the pandemic, we’ve brought our offering online, which has made it scalable and accessible. We remain focused on small, intensive classes, with leading lecturers who focus on instilling the hard and soft skills employers really want.” Jeannie concludes, “I was so excited to read every single application. I really hope these scholarships inspire tangible change and help the recipients to feel stimulated and inspired. Learning to learn is an amazing skill. Enjoy the process. Never stop improving.”  We’re finally at Level 4 of the lockdown and food deliveries are now permitted. Home… The old world is crumbling around us, but it’s not all doom and gloom. Stokvels… No-one knows what the future of the country, let alone the world, holds. It’s a… 