Zindzi Mandela was a friend, a sister, an activist and a mentor.  She was her mother’s daughter,  a firebrand who was not afraid to take on the apartheid regime when both Madiba and Winnie were either incarcerated or unable to speak for themselves. Zenani Mandela, Zindzi Mandela, President Barack Obama, Naomie Harris, Idris Elba Another fearless, shining light of the Mandela Family has left us.  We will miss her love, her dignity, her humanity and her care for all those around her. Zindzi was, and always will be a special  friend and inspiration, especially having had her alongside from early on when the plans for the film began to formulate while Madiba was in prison, to being awarded the film rights to MANDELA: LONG WALK TO FREEDOM.  She was always accessible and generous with advice.  She, Winnie and Zenani were the first people I spoke to about the idea of Idris Elba playing Madiba, they loved the choice. Singh flanked by Zenani Mandela and Zindzi Mandela On the journey of the rollout of the film she was  alongside us attending the World Premiere in Johannesburg, The Whitehouse screening for President Obama, the premieres in New York, Los Angeles (co-hosted by our mutual friend, Quincy Jones), Cannes and the Royal Film Performance in London which took place on the night of Madiba passing. Not only was she a daughter, sister, mother, grandmother and wife, she was also a deep thinker, a diplomat and poet.  She had shared poems with me. In 1978 at 18, she  published the anthology, ‘Black As I Am’,  which was profound.  One of the poems in this collection,  ‘A Tree Was Chopped Down’ is especially appropriate in the wake of her passing:  A tree was chopped down and the fruit was scattered I cried because I had lost a family the trunk, my father the branches, his support so much the fruit, the wife and children who meant so much to him tasty loving as they should be all on the ground some out of his reach in the ground the roots, happiness cut off from him. South Africa has lost a young giant, who has left a huge void in our lives. Our love and prayers go to the entire Mandela family, Zenani, Zoleka, Zondwa, Bambatha, Zwelabo and Molapo. Viva sis Zindzi !  Viva !   It’s estimated that the average person will spend 90 000 hours at work over a… According to best-selling author Brené Brown, shame drives two tapes – “Not good enough” and… The dawn of any new season, especially summer, is often pregnant with expectation, excitement, enthusiasm… 